# C64play

A music player for the Commodore 64's SID tunes, based 
on [sidplayfp](https://github.com/libsidplayfp/sidplayfp).

See what I've done down below and also how you can contribute to the project!

### What I added···

- Extra displays:
  - Master volume
  - Active filters
  - Filtered channels
  - Filter resonance
  - Filter cutoff
  - With the exception of the 2nd and 3rd ones, they're all printed in hexadecimal.

- Changes to the keybinds:
  - Replay a tune by hitting the `r` key instead of having a 4-second timeout.
  - YouTube player-like keybinds:
    - Hit `j` to go to the previous subtune;
    - `k` to pause one;
    - and `l` to go to the next subtune.
  - Hit `g` to jump to a specific subtune instead of repeatedly hitting `j` or `l`.
  - Hit `=` to double the playback speed of a tune.
    - You know I actually meant `+`, but pressing shift is kinda awkward,
	  so I just made it `=` instead.
    - You can then hit `-` to halve it;
    - Or `0` to go all the way back to the normal speed!

- Other visual changes:
  - The last row of text also shows useful keybinds instead of just suggesting
    the user to hit a key to exit and displaying the time elapsed.
  - Changes to the color palette.
  - You can now see the filter curve and/or range value on the main UI.
    - These values get hidden if filter emulation is disabled at startup.
  - The `DigiBoost` field now only appears if a tune uses the 8580 chip.
  - A `~` prefixes a note if its frequency doesn't match one of the ones in the
    frequency table.
	- Every tune seems to use a different frequency table, so don't expect it to
	  be that accurate! Although I'm sure it'll be off by just a semitone at worst.
  - Slightly wider interface, as a result of my additions to the UI.
  - Replaced the `+` character from the sides to `:`.
  - The configuration file automatically generated by the program doesn't have
    an extra empty line at the end. I'm kind of a perfectionist at times···

- OsciDump, a script for dumping individual channels to make oscilloscope views
  - It comes in 2 versions: one for single-SID tunes and another one for double-SID
    ones.
  - Straightforward to use: just run `oscidump[_2SID].sh` and use the same
    arguments you'd use when playing a tune in C64play!
	- Exception: `-ma` and `-mb` arguments. Those have special behavior. They
	  include the sample channel on the dump if needed.

- C64's latest ROM files
  - First, these ROM files are probably available everywhere on the internet. No
    need to bother with copyright issues.
  - Second, my project is _tiny_ compared to ones like VICE, which bundle these
    ROMs to their packages.
  - Third, convenience :)

### What I removed···

- Support for Windows
  - I'm thinking of making a new UI for that. Maybe SDL in the future?
  - Plus, as I'm still a beginner, I needed to simplify stuff.
    Sorry Windows folks! :p

- Display configuration file location
  - I didn't find any use for this, as there's no command-line option
    to load a configuration file in a custom location and the file is always
	loaded from the same location ¯\\_(ツ)\_/¯

- STILView
  - Never used it, didn't wanna take care of something I never messed
    with···

- Support for emulating with a real SID (e.g. exSID)
  - HardSID support is untested on libsidplayfp. Why bother?? xD

- AU file support
  - I only knew this file format existed after digging into sidplayfp's source
    code, really. I've never seen it being used at all, and it's an old format.
	Most software nowadays are probably incompatible with it.

- Support for `Songlengths.txt`
  - Because since HVSC #71 (it's from 2019!), only the new MD5 format is
    included, so again, why botherrrrrr

- Support for libout123
  - No idea how to work with that one, it's better to leave it Pulseaudio-only
    instead. Maybe I'll work with it if sidplayfp eventually fully adopts it,
	since there'll be more changes to the audio code along with that one.

- Support for ALSA output*
  - *I'm actually only temporarily removing support for it, because for some
    reason the text synchronization is really messed up on it. Until this gets
	fixed, I'll keep ALSA support disabled.

### Contributing

If you have any ideas to enhance the program, found any bugs, wanna point out
a detail that I missed, or just ask a question, feel free to open an issue or
make a pull request, that would be very appreciated!!

But just by using this program you're already contributing to it in a way tho'
:)
