=encoding utf8


=head1 NAME

C64play - a SID emulator for playing C64 tunes based on sidplayfp


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<c64play> [I<options>] I<file>


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<C64play> is rather a front-end to libsidplayfp, which is where
the actual magic happens. libsidplayfp emulates an accurate C64
environment for playing SID tunes, using the reSID emulation en-
gine by default, which is based on reSID, a project made by the
VICE team to reverse-engineer the SID chip and provide the best
possible emulation for it on modern computers.

C64play is currently in heavy development, it first started as
a simple fork of sidplayfp called I<sidplayfp-red_M95> and now
will be a more sophisticated project. Still nothing big, as the
current developer is a beginner and there's currently no one
else to contribute.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h, --help>

Displays a help message, showing you the options plus a brief
description for each of them.

=item B<-h, --help-debug>

Displays a help message for debugging-related options, plus a
brief description for each.

=item B<-f>I<< <num> >>

Set sample rate for audio output, in Hz. Defaults to 48000 Hz.

=item B<-nf>

Disable SID filter emulation. Helps with speed on lower-end
hardware at the cost of emulation quality.

=item B<-o>I<< <num> >>

Select starting track index number. Default is provided by the
file itself.

=item B<-s>

Enable stereo playback. This is the default when loading a 2SID
tune, where SID #1 is panned to the left channel and SID #2 to
the right one. For 3SID tunes, the panning is the same and SID #3
is panned to the center.
 
=item B<-m>

Enable mono playback.

=item B<-v|q>[level]

Either a [v]erbose output or a [q]uiet one. Takes an optional [level],
ranging from 1 to 3 on both cases. The level defaults to 1 if not 
specified.

=item B<-b>I<< <num> >>

Set where to start in [min:]sec[.mil] format. Can also be used when
recording to a WAV file.

=item B<-D>I<< <addr> >>

Forces a 2SID environment by adding a second SID at <addr>. It forces
a stereo playback, and can be useful for raw .prg files as there's
currently no way to properly identify them. For MUS and SID files
however, the 2nd SID is already identified.

SID #2 can go on addresses 0xD420 - 0xD7FF or 0xDE00 - 0xDFFF. The
address can be specified in either hexadecimal (with the 0x prefix)
or decimal format.

=item B<-T>I<< <addr> >>

Adds a third SID at <addr>. Same thing as B<-D>.

=item B<-m>I<< <num|char> >>

Start playing with channel <num> muted. Can be used more than once at
a time, which can be handy for dumping individual channels.

Channels 1 to 3 are for SID #1, 4 to 6 for SID #2, and 7 to 9 for SID #3.

Moreover, using 'a' to 'c' makes it mute sample playback, from SID #1 to
SID #3 respectively.

=item B<-p>I<< <num> >>

Set bit depth when recording to a file. You may use either 16 for a
signed 16-bit output, or 32 for a 32-bit float one. Defaults to 16.

=item B<-o>I<< <l|s|<num>> >>

Track options:
Use I<l> to make the selected track loop.

Use I<s> to select only one of the subtunes from <file> and play it,
ignoring the rest.

And use I<<num>> to make playback start at a specific subtune from
<file>.

=item B<-t>I<< <num> >>

Set play time, in [min:]sec[.mil] format. Use 0 for infinite play time.

=item B<-v>I<< <n|p>[f] >>

Set or [f]orce a video signal for the VIC chip.

Use I<n> for NTSC, commonly used in America, with a 60 Hz signal.

And use I<p> for PAL, commonly used in Europe, with a 50 Hz signal.

Note that not forcing a video signal triggers a signal fix. On a
real C64 this doesn't happen, so adding [f] simulates the real
behavior.

=item B<-m>I<< <o|n>[f] >>

Set or [f]orce SID chip to be used.

Use I<o> for the old 6581 model.

And use I<n> for the newer 8580 one.

=item B<--digiboost>

Enable DigiBost, a hack for the 8580 SID chip to make samples
audible.

=item B<-r>I<< <i|r>[f] >>

Set resampling method. If using the reSID engine, [f]ast sampling
is supported.
Use I<i> for Resample interpolate, which prioritizes speed over
accuracy.

And use I<r> for Resample, which prioritizes accuracy over speed
(this is the default).

=item B<-w, --wav>I<< [name] >>

Record selected tune to a WAV file. The default file name is
<file>[subtune].wav, where [subtune] appears if the file has more
than one subtune. By providing [name], the .wav extension is added
automatically.

=item B<--resid>

Use the reSID emulation engine, made by the VICE project.

=item B<--residfp>

Use the reSIDfp emulation engine, which is the default.

=item B<--cpu-debug>

Display CPU registers and assembly dumps, only available in
debug builds.

=item B<--delay=>I<< [num] >>

Simulate a power-on delay on the C64 in CPU cycles. If [num]
is greater than 8191, the delay will be randomly generated,
which is the default.

=item B<--fcurve=>I<< <num>|auto >>

Sets the filter curve on the reSIDfp emulation engine. Ranges
from -2.0 ("light") to 2.0 ("dark"). Defaults to 0.5.

=item B<--frange=>I<< <num>|auto >>

For libsidplayfp v2.7.0 and higher. Controls the filter range
value for the 6581 chip under the reSIDfp emulation.

=item B<--noaudio>

Don't use an audio output device.

=item B<--nosid>

Don't emulate a SID.

=item B<--none>

Don't emulate both the SID and also don't use an audio output
device.

=back

=head1 Key bindings

=over

=item 1-9

Mute/unmute voice(s) 1-9.

=item a-d

Mute/unmute samples from SID #1 to #3.

=item f

Toggle filter emulation.

=item k

Pause/unpause playback.

=item q

Quit player.

=item Up/Down arrow keys

Increase/reset playback speed.

=item j/l

Go to the previous/next subtune.

=item g

Jump directly to a subtune.

=item Home/End

Go to first/last subtune.

=back


=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over

=item B<HVSC_BASE>

The path to the HVSC base directory. If specified, Songlengths.md5 will be
loaded from there and you can use relative paths to SID tunes as well.

=back


=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<c64play.ini>

The configuration file. See L<c64play.ini(5)> for more details.

=item F<kernal>

C64's Kernal ROM file.

=item F<basic>

C64's BASIC ROM file.

=item F<chargen>

C64's character generator ROM file.

=back


=head1 BUGS

You can report bugs to L<https://github.com/ruby-R53/C64play/issues/>, that
would be appreciated!


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<c64play.ini(5)>


=head1 NOTES

Due to Copyright issues, C64play isn't shipped with ROM dumps.

Check L<c64play.ini> for more details like search paths and configuration stuff.


=head1 AUTHORS

=over

=item Enki Costa

Current maintainer of C64play.

=item Leandro Nini

Current maintainer of sidplayfp.

=item Simon White

Wrote the original Sidplay2.

=item Dag Lem

Wrote the reSID emulation engine.

=item Antti S. Lankila

Wrote the reSIDfp emulation engine as a fork of reSID 0.16.

=item The VICE team

Large part of the emulation is based on the VICE's code.

=item André Fachat

Wrote the original reloc65 utility.

=item Michael Schwendt

Wrote the original SidTune library and MD5 class (based on work by L. Peter Deutsch).

=item Mikko Kilponen

Wrote the original man page.

=back


=head1 LINKS

=over

=item The repository on GitHub: L<https://github.com/ruby-R53/C64play/>

=item Homepage of libsidplayfp: L<https://github.com/libsidplafp/>

=item Homepage of Sidplay2: L<http://sidplay2.sourceforge.net/>

=item High Voltage SID Collection (HVSC): L<http://hvsc.c64.org/>

=back


=head1 COPYING

=over

=item Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Simon White

=item Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Antti Lankila

=item Copyright (C) 2009-2015 VICE Project

=item Copyright (C) 2010-2024 Leandro Nini

=item Copyright (C) 2024-2025 Enki Costa

=back

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
